README.md, before:

# Mochi tutorial

This repository contains materials, exercises, and resources for Mochi
tutorials.  The official location for this repository is:

https://github.com/mochi-hpc-experiments/mochi-tutorial

Snapshots of material that correspond to specific tutorial events can be
found by browsing git tags on this repository (use `git tag` and `git
checkout <tagname>` on the command line or browse the tag/branch dropdown
box on github). Tutorial events that have used this repository are listed in
reverse chronological order below.

More general information about the Mochi project can be found on the [Mochi
web site]( https://www.mcs.anl.gov/research/projects/mochi/).

# Prerequisite: Mochi tutorial Docker container

Please prepare a Mochi development environment _prior_ to participating in a
Mochi tutorial with a hands-on exercise component.

The easiest way to do this is by using a pre-configured Docker container.
Please see the instructions for [creating a Mochi tutorial
container](docker/README.md) for instructions.

# Events

## Developing Custom HPC Data Services Using Mochi (ISC 2023)

- [Event
  details](https://app.swapcard.com/widget/event/isc-high-performance-2023/planning/UGxhbm5pbmdfMTIyMDc5NQ==)
  - Sunday, May 21, 2023 2:00 PM to 6:00 PM (Europe/Berlin)
  - coffee break is from 4:00 PM to 4:30 PM
  - Speakers:
    - Matthieu Dorier (ANL)
    - Phil Carns (ANL)
    - Marc Vef (JGU)
- Presentation materials: **TBD**
- Hands-on exercises:
  - C programming language: [Margo tutorial
    exercises](https://github.com/mochi-hpc-experiments/margo-tutorial-exercises)
  - C++ programming language: [Thallium tutorial
    exercises](https://github.com/mochi-hpc-experiments/thallium-tutorial-exercises)

Commit message:

add link to slack workspace and channel

README.md, after:

# Mochi tutorial

This repository contains materials, exercises, and resources for Mochi
tutorials.  The official location for this repository is:

https://github.com/mochi-hpc-experiments/mochi-tutorial

Snapshots of material that correspond to specific tutorial events can be
found by browsing git tags on this repository (use `git tag` and `git
checkout <tagname>` on the command line or browse the tag/branch dropdown
box on github). Tutorial events that have used this repository are listed in
reverse chronological order below.

More general information about the Mochi project can be found on the [Mochi
web site]( https://www.mcs.anl.gov/research/projects/mochi/).

# Prerequisite: Mochi tutorial Docker container

Please prepare a Mochi development environment _prior_ to participating in a
Mochi tutorial with a hands-on exercise component.

The easiest way to do this is by using a pre-configured Docker container.
Please see the instructions for [creating a Mochi tutorial
container](docker/README.md) for instructions.

# Events

## Developing Custom HPC Data Services Using Mochi (ISC 2023)

- [Event
  details](https://app.swapcard.com/widget/event/isc-high-performance-2023/planning/UGxhbm5pbmdfMTIyMDc5NQ==)
  - Sunday, May 21, 2023 2:00 PM to 6:00 PM (Europe/Berlin)
  - coffee break is from 4:00 PM to 4:30 PM
  - Speakers:
    - Matthieu Dorier (ANL)
    - Phil Carns (ANL)
    - Marc Vef (JGU)
- Presentation materials:
  - **TBD**
- Hands-on exercises:
  - C programming language: [Margo tutorial
    exercises](https://github.com/mochi-hpc-experiments/margo-tutorial-exercises)
  - C++ programming language: [Thallium tutorial
    exercises](https://github.com/mochi-hpc-experiments/thallium-tutorial-exercises)
- Communication:
  - Please join the [Mochi workspace on
    Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/mochi-sds/shared_invite/zt-co8bjqua-4To3u5bAEIdYqLuWYrgcyw)
    and use the #mochi-tutorial-isc-2023 channel for discussion and help before,
    during, and after the tutorial.
